yeah so in the last section i
was too slow and there's still a little
bit of code left
but i think what is more useful because
that is only a more in-depth
and and more complex uh workflow that
reuses the same basic principles
i would give everyone the opportunity to
at the end of this
section once we are at the end of the
theoretical input so to say decide on
what type of content they want to see
whether they
whether i should present the um the more
complex work
uh flow with data led basics um
and you can read up on that also in the
code along
section in the handbook if you are
curious to find out what it does
uh whether we want to do something with
a reproducible paper
or with containerized pipelines
but first i'll start with some
theoretical
input on reproducible research in
general
and something that is
nicely demonstrated in this figure here
is that a paper published paper
is only the last step of the
pipeline of decisions that have been
made
that have modified the data or the code
that generated the results
or anything that that that
had an influence on the final
result that is reported in the paper and
when you
share a paper with someone else then the
findings that this paper reports
are if you want to be really um
really really um i don't know
cruel so to say they are um just
um a statement that one can decide to
trust or not trust
if no one has the ability to
take a transparent look into the
pipeline that generated
the paper then it is questionable
whether the results that are reported in
the paper can reproduce on another
system
[Music]
or actually hold and it's also much
harder to build up on the results that
are reported in the paper
and there's this famous paraphrased
quote
of john clear about who was a pioneer in
reproducible research
that i very much like and and he says
an article about computational science
in a scientific publication
is not the scholarship itself it is
merely advertising of the scholarship
the actual scholarship is the complete
software development environment and the
complete set of instructions which
generated the figures
and he did say that in the 90s so that's
already
quite a while ago but i think um if
you've been involved in science and
reproducing other
others without results in taking up a
project
that another person has worked on then
um
you probably share the um
the this general sentiment
that you need the complete set of
instructions
which uh describe how a particular
result came to be in order to reproduce
it else it's really really hard
so my my path from my personal
experience
for example um back when
i think i did my master's thesis um we
were using eye tracking data and we were
analyzing it
and we were searching for an algorithm
that was capable
of analyzing these eye tracking
data and we found
many papers that reported phenomenal
results of their algorithms
but they it was just it was just
bragging
it was here's an awesome finding we
our algorithm really performs well but
the algorithm
was behind closed doors it's not only
that it most often was written
in in programming languages
that were closed software tools where
we didn't actually um necessarily had
the means to execute the code but the
code
actually wasn't shared so they had this
algorithm that could do something that
we also wanted to do
to base further research on and we
weren't able to get there
and that was a motivation for us to then
uh
actually implement our own um
algorithm just out of necessity because
it
it left us no other choice um and
this is how i want to kind of um
uh yeah motivate the section on
reproducible science and to give you
some
ideas on how to be better than that
and to illustrate some workflows from my
own
uh um from from my own workflows on uh
how i do this i actually need to
um get rid of these headphones that's a
weird echo that i'm getting now i can
talk more freely
sorry okay so first
uh i want to
[Music]
give a quick reminder of the definitions
that have been already a part
of the concept section that
i powerpoint karaoked
when leonard was briefly offline so
there
are these four important concepts
representability
replicability robustness and
generalization
and all of them are part of the
scientific process
and important to distinguish from one
another so when
we talk about reproducibility in this
context here then we mean that we get
identical results when we have
the same analysis run on the same data
so basically what the
data run record did in the
in the last section when we talk about
replicability
um then we reuse
the code the analysis that we have run
but we run it on different data
and if that produces a similar results
then we talk of
a or then we call a result replicable
and the result is robust
when it's the same data but a different
analysis
tweak parameters a different
implementation of the same algorithm and
so forth
and a finding is generalizable if
it holds or the hypothesis or theory
holds
if we have different data on a different
analysis and
the basic section has probably shown you
that um the reproducibility aspect
that's quite
easily actually to to to see
or to ensure with the basic data that
run or on
containers run command but i also want
to highlight how
all of these other three concepts can be
at least
eased with some of the tools and
workflows
that we talk about in this workshop and
the first thing that i want to do is i
want to
um walk through a checklist that i
personally find really helpful
it comes from a book that conradinsen
published this year on computational
reproducibility
and that's a really good book that i
definitely recommend reading but he has
digested
or distilled um his his
advice for general computational
reproducibility into a checklist and
that's completely independent of
of dataled or any of the tools that we
um talk about it's just a general
checklist of things so even if you're
not interested in using datalit then
that's
a checklist that holds true regardless
um of of whether you're actually using
data led or not
so one thing um that leonard already
uh has mentioned multiple times is that
you should use code
in scripts so workflows that are based
on point and click interfaces
for example x2 they are not reproducible
if you entrain computations and data
manipulations in code
it's much easier to associate a change
with the code
that produced it then document use
comments computational notebooks read me
files to explain how your code works and
to define the expected parameters and
the computation
environment required that's both for you
and
your future self and for your
collaborators and the
people that read your research then
record make a note of key parameters for
example seed values
that are used to start a random number
generator
you should test and that's a concept
that comes from software engineering and
it's
definitely not easy to implement but if
this is the first time
that you have heard of unit testing then
that would be a concept that i would
really
recommend you to to google um the
touring way for example has a very nice
introduction
to that and that's something that is
extremely powerful and helpful to ensure
that you can trust the code that you
have written
so testing involves creating a suit of
test functions in whatever programming
language you use a scripting language
and then you can use positive or
negative control data sets to ensure you
get the expected results run
tests throughout the development of an
analysis pipeline to see whether there
are any unexpected
unexpected things that that it does
throughout the development and then you
can much easier identify
bugs in your code that um make your your
call faulty or non-reproducible and so
forth
i just had a comment um i mean since we
agreed that we wanted to make this a bit
more
um yes right live lively i wanted
um i just had a thought about testing so
um at least in my impression um
at least in cognitive neuroscience
testing is like explicit testing is
rarely done or somewhat more implicitly
um
and um but i often also notice
um just in my own work that often i just
do
like simple checks but i don't kind of
write them up
as extra scripts um
i don't know if this is helpful for
others but when i noticed this that
for example i would have a data frame
in my workspace of whatever r python
and i would then whatever calculate the
number of rows
to check if they make sense and stuff
like that and
um but i never really um paid attention
to writing them up
explicitly in a test that i could run on
data
and um i don't know
if i mean maybe other people can also
say something about this but
from my impression um that is
often the case that we do this somewhat
implicitly or we do it
we do it in some way but not in this
more formal way um
that it can be really used in larger
scale and kind of can
that these tests can accompany the
project throughout its lifetime but it's
also a step-by-step process right so
um of course you when you start
writing unit tests for scripts then it's
likely that you won't end up with the
perfect tests with perfect test coverage
and
and so forth but it has saved me so many
times already when i just had
in in python assert statement in just my
workflow script
that asserted whether general truths
helped like the
amount of observations was correct the
right amount of data files was written
so that already is a step towards
ensuring that your code works
okay then what hinson also includes in
his checklist is
guidance and he says for example
creating a master script
for example a share script called
runner's age
that performs all of the necessary steps
in the correct order
um with the required data downloads with
the required parameterization
execution of the workflows and so forth
and that's definitely helpful because if
you have a very large project with
multiple with multiple code files um
and it's not clear in which order the
code files have to be executed
especially if they produce
output that other scripts rely on then
having such
a a guidance script can be
incredibly helpful for for you when you
revisit the project later
and for others
and later um we're talking also a little
bit
about make files and how they can can
can help
uh with this then another thing that
um may not be obvious to do in order to
ensure reproducibility
is archival so where leonard and i
stress
the the importance and the the niceties
of of
um repository hosting services such as
github and gitlab
um those things are
probably not um
very likely to survive
until the eternity because there are
corporate solutions
a gitlab instance that's run by the mpi
is likely to survive
but if the iit runs out of financing or
something then that gitlab instance will
die
but there are archival solutions for
example zenodo fixture or software
heritage
where government institutions stand
behind
and where it is ensured that anything
that you archive there
is preserved for let's say 50 years for
example and all of these solutions
um are in most cases free and also
provide quite ample storage
so if you're an european researcher then
you can use the nodo
to archive up to 50 gigabytes and you
can ask them for an extension just
as an addition as a as a preserved
uh archived um state
of your of your project and if that's
preserved then
it is ensured that others can can at
least access it
uh in 10 years in 20 years and that is
a prerequisite for reproducing whatever
you have done in this project
the next thing that hinson recommends is
tracking
and he says to use version control tools
such as git
to record your project's history note
which version you used
to create your results and i would
definitely agree to that and probably
say that
that there is an easy way to do this uh
that does not even require get knowledge
with data led
then he talks about packaging which is
creating
ready to use computational environments
using containerization tools
for example docker singularity web
services
such as code ocean gigantoman binder and
binder is for example also really nice
service that you can use to
just have a computational environment
spin up with a github repository so if
you've never heard of that
we won't talk about it but you can just
google it it's quite nice
and also virtual environment packages
managers such as conda
and later in this session we'll talk
about
software containers and you've already
seen how you can
have a software container added to a
data set and i will shed
a little bit of insight into how my
workflow for creating software
containers
looks like typically now the last
points on the checklist automation
and leonard will show concrete examples
of that from his work at the end
of the session and hinson recommends to
use continuous integration services
um if for example travis ci that
can be used to automatically test your
code and
those are services that can also be
very easily and nicely integrated to
github or gitlab repositories
and you'll see a concrete example of
that when leonard showcases some of his
work
and then um hinson recommends to avoid
niche or how to install the party code
libraries that can complicate reuse
and to verify in the form of checking
code's portability by running it in a
range of computing environments
and those are obviously also very very
true um
statements and i uh
wanted to highlight in this um in this
section
that datalit is is one tool out of out
of a great range of free and open source
software tools that can make
reproducible research
easier to do and i wanted to take a more
detailed look into
some of the ways in which datalit can
help with this in particular
i first want to just briefly highlight
some miscellaneous
facts about data that functions then i
wanted to
revisit these yoda principles for
reproducible analysis
then showcase how data that can be used
as a component in reproducible papers
and give you an idea
or several ideas of how to to produce a
reproducible paper and then i want to
talk a little bit more about the data
containers extension to add in new
software containers and about container
solutions
in general
okay so first for a little bit of
miscellaneous data like facts that i
wasn't able to incorporate into
workflows or that i just wanted to
highlight again
to um just to just harden uh
or to just to just give you another
another um
reminder of that so um or just general
general um for your interest facts that
that i found useful
in in my everyday work so hinson says to
use
code and script and that workflows based
on point-and-click interfaces
are not reproducible and that
computations and data manipulation
should be enshrined in code
and first of all yes absolutely very
very much so
um but this is something that some
people
may not be used to work with so
some people may just open up a matlab
session and then compute their results
and save them into the data set
or in an interactive python session
or a jasp or spss session or whatever
and that doesn't leave a trace neither
is there anything enshrined in code if
it's done in interactive session nor is
the date and time and and author
of a figure or a result saved
in any form and if that
should be a part of your workflow that
you
really don't want to let go of so i
would certainly always recommend to
to put everything that you do write it
in code
uh try to try to keep some sort of
record
in it but at the very least one thing
that you could do
to at least attach provenance about an
author and the time
of a change is to do whatever you're
doing interactively
in a day-to-day run session so when you
do data let run i python
or data that run matlab or rstudio
then whatever program you specify will
open up in your typical interactive
session
and once you close it all of the results
that you have saved in the wake of this
interactive session into your datalit
will at least be saved and associated
with
a a bit of provenance it's crappy
provenance
but it's something and that is already
one way of um keeping keeping your data
set a little bit clutter free
so there's not this i'm going to
experiment a bit
and then i'm creating here five figures
there and then the next day
another two figures and then if i take
another look a week afterwards
uh into my data set and then there are
all of these unchecked files
uh with that kind of workflow there's
they are at least
saved and associated with the date and
that's better than nothing
but still um i don't want to i can't
stress this enough a code script that is
actually
um documenting what you do is obviously
the the
best choice or the better choice than
that
okay now then
there are obviously these um
rules for documentation and records
and i just want to highlight here that
um it's great to have human readable
workflows documented in a readme file or
in a change
log or any of those files that you add
to a project
that are meant for human consumption and
where
someone who gets to see your data set
without knowing you or without knowing
anything of your project knows
immediately where to look for
information for it's really really
important to have those files
but i also want to stress that commit
messages
and run records uh can do the very same
thing
and are a really useful basis and
extension
to the documentation for humans so if
you make sure
that you have very well maintained
data set history version history if
you're using it
then such digital
documentation or records or provenance
that sticks
to the to the data set or the git
repository that you compute your results
in
is really really really really valuable
and
especially great because it's machine
readable and then there's also
what i've shown you in the um in the
basis
workflow the yoda procedure that
automatically populated
a repository with readme files for
example
um that's one way of nudging people into
actually populating and using those
regions and if you are a pi
and you would be interested
in let's say supplying your students
with a setup for such a data set and you
can write your own procedure that
creates the types of files that you want
your
your students to populate to to just
create the infrastructure
um then that people can build up on and
that's very very helpful and that's
for example also something that we in
our institute are um
soon to be implementing for new projects
just to get people started
yeah um maybe just another two cents
from my side
so um just to give an example from my
own experience
um this kind of documenting i've also
found it useful
um to really get into this mindset to
really try
to document everything that is kind of
important to know about the
data set actually in the data set like
for example in these readme files
i mean there's there are ways again with
additional software
um but not necessarily to write extra
documentation that contains
um that contains a bunch of text files
that can then
also be rendered into some website like
documentation of the project and so on
and i found this very helpful because
then
everything is in one place and again i
mean we saw at the beginning right
a lot of people actually report um that
they have code and data and nodes
scattered all over different hard drives
and computers and so on
um and i mean everyone has their own
style of taking notes and
working and i think that's also totally
fine um
and you can take notes and whatever on a
sheet of paper on your desk or
in some extra note keeping app or
whatever you use
right um just to share my personal
experience iphone really useful to just
make this all in one place in one
ideally version controlled data set kind
of right next to the data
right next to the code where everything
is really
tightly packed together basically yeah
yeah
and that gives others the chance to also
get an idea of what you have done
so i always like the this supervisor
supervisee
example if a a student
a graduate student a master student has
a digital
lab notebook in the form of a of a
well-maintained git history then
supervisor has really easy means to find
out what has been done to check code to
really go into the project
and that's that's that's making life
um significantly easier uh in my opinion
yeah and maybe just to quickly mention
another aspect so maybe some of you
actually know
um issues so um for example github or
get lab
with each project there's a dedicated
section on
github and gitlab where you can open up
issues about the code where you can
basically
write down bug problems whatever
ideas future requests and i mean
software developers really use this to
communicate about all their changes and
adina also mentioned it before
and that's also actually nice because
right next to code
on the platform that you're using
anywhere anyways like for example github
or gitlab
you can have these issues you can link
people
um that maybe you should comment on that
or that you
ask for help for example and then you
can have discussions about certain
features or problems
and then actually you can also relate
changes in your data set or in your code
to these issue discussions and then
again you have a very tight link between
um really just discussing
problems in any way you want and then
actually relating it to
concrete changes in your code or data
that's also
um really helpful in my opinion yeah
okay then there is this notion of tests
and also there yes definitely it's not
an easy thing to do uh it's it's not a
straightforward skill to have and it's
certainly not taught
in in most in most programs i'm a
clinical psychologist
i didn't know about unit tests ever
never heard of it in in any of my
lectures
um but uh that's why we try to to
to mention these things just for you to
have an idea of
yeah that's a concept that exists that
may be helpful
there's also a chapter in the touring
way that is an introduction to
to unit tests and how to do it and
that's a really good
thing that i would recommend you using
but i also want to stress
that datalit provides because
of the content identity hashing
that is done next files one way of
actually ensuring that if you
run something again if you if you tweak
an analysis pipeline and then
and then recompute it that this is a way
or version control in general to just
have
a computer a machine tell you about
something that has changed
outside of a unit testing framework in
addition
um and the software tools that you're
using be the guidance git dataled
they will be able to tell you to tell
you this
and that's uh that's just something to
to keep in mind
that uh this can also be a helpful a
helpful
addition then uh
the master script or the guide that uh
takes someone
through your complex analysis in a
single entry point
and definitely yes and i'm going to show
you a concrete example
in the reproducible paper section on
that
and here i just want to stress that a
well-made
run record that works
on different operating systems that has
software environments and hatched at
best
can do this too or at least help so
that's a useful addition to have
for sharing a data set because it
provides this easy to do
to use access point for people that are
completely unfamiliar with your project
and if you provide them with a data like
rerun command that they can
execute then that's already a
significant
improvement to just sharing a data set
without
any notion of what to do with it
whatsoever
and then there are make files and i
think some people that
are attending this workshop already know
a lot about make files
but they are also great because they are
basically
a recipe that you can use in order to
link
uh manage workflows in the appropriate
order and execution time and i'm going
to have a glimpse into one later
okay then the point about archiving this
is where i wanted to note that if you
have any data set with whatever contents
there is one data led command that can
export
its straight as a zip archive to fixture
so fixture is a service that does
archiving
it allows you to attach meaningful
metadata to it and
it generates a doi that you can use to
cite whatever it is that you put there
so i for example frequently put
scientific posters
um up there so that i have a preserved
record that i can point people to or
create
a qr code and so forth so
um there is the data led command export
fixture
that if you have a fixture account and a
token
that you provide to datalet takes your
data set contents and exports them to
your fixture archive and if i have
exported a fixture i'm here um
it asks me would you like to create a
new article or would you like to use an
existing one i say i want to have a new
article
then it asks me what name do i want to
give this
article and then it performs the upload
and
puts it to fiction and then on fixture i
have
this new collection and i can use the
web interface a fixture to attach the
metadata for i can finalize the
the archival of that record and uh get a
dui
that i can then point others to note
that this is not a data set so you can't
clone that but it's however fixed share
reports the data given to it as a zip
archive in this case
so you lose the version control and the
revision history
but you have performed an archival of
whatever it was that in this state of
the data set
um has been done in the data set
all right okay so about packaging um
we have already shown you that the data
that container extension can help to do
this
and later in this session we also
highlight a couple of the tools that
are used to package up software docker
and singularity
and some helper tools to get you started
and yes uh unless you have something to
add
i think i will go again to the yoda
principles
yeah okay cool so
just um to stress this when i in the
basis
basics section um briefly talked about
these
principles for for intuitively and
reproducible data analysis
i mentioned um a couple of things that
may be
unfamiliar or not as you're used to
for example the separation of input data
and and output of results
and this modular and nested structure
and that
is um something that that may or may not
be
something that you've already done and i
just wanted to to stress that
a data set can have absolutely any
structure
you can populate it however you want you
can nest it however deep you want you
can
also use as few or as many features of
of data that as you wish to you don't
need to use run records you can also
only use it to dump in data and publish
it
but if you're doing a data analysis then
the yoda principles
they are a beneficial set of features
and i want to
just use this this point at the workshop
to
um take another tour to through these
these these principles and and try to
explain why they are useful
because some of these rules may be
counter-intuitive
um for you so the the one thing that
um maybe a little bit um weird is this
modularity
and that's summarized in this principle
of one thing
and one day one thing being one data set
so in principle the um the principle
boils down to bundling all components
um that are standalone units
into a standalone data set and then
taking all of these individual
components and
uh bundling them up into one super data
set that combines them
as individually version controlled uh
units with their own revision history
and whenever um you ask yourself
or when whenever something that you
create with that data
or be that i don't know a software
toolbox
um whenever something can be of more use
then just one time then it's beneficial
to put it
in its own data set and install it as a
sub data set
so with this you can keep
a clean and modular structure that helps
you
to have a very solid border
in the form of data set boundaries to
for example separate code
and output and data or execution
environment so to say
but even though you have this intuitive
structure that that separates those
components
um you can still operate across them
without being aware of these borders
because data led blurs the borders quite
well
between data set structures and then
[Music]
the reason for why this particular
notion of installing input data and then
never touching it again
not putting results data right next to
it
which is uh something that a lot of
people i think do
that is i think um exemplified in this
very short example quite nicely
so let's say you have an original data
set
that looks like this it's just named
data set it has a sample one and a
sample two and each sample has a dot dot
file
um if you then add output data
to the input data and you place it in
the exact same
location as the input data then even
if you would use domain standards such
as bits for
for example it requires your brain
or an expert or domain knowledge
in order to dissociate input from output
data it's not
immediately clear from the structure of
those
directory trees alone and
it is never a good thing or if you can
prevent it
then produce your project in a way
that your brain is not a requirement to
make them understandable
or working so if you would instead take
the raw data set
but have it as a standalone component
here as an input section and then
have the derivat the derivatives of
those
inputs somewhere else then this
structure
makes it possible for anyone regardless
of whether
they are in the same field as i am have
knowledge of the same
naming standards i use file types to
much
more quickly dissociate those two
the input and the output files from one
another
from one another um
and here are a couple of rules of when
it might be useful
to modularize because that in some cases
may
not be super straightforward so one
um guideline on when to modularize is
when the target audience for a data set
is different so
for example public versus private data
um or if it's domain specific versus
domain general data
um another set of of guidance is if the
pace of evolution is different so you
may want
to archive the factor of raw data as one
data set
and then the different choices of
pre-processing flavors that you can
apply at
as individual data sets that that use
that as a sub data set
and the same for a completed acquisition
which may be its
which should be its standalone data set
versus an ongoing study
which you can maybe um collect into the
same data set
or bundle up
once it's done um from individual data
sets so let's say if you have a
fmri analysis and you acquire data over
the course of two years
then you can add all of the icons which
are thousands of files into individual
data sets
for example to then once the acquisition
is done bundle them all up
into a and to a general data set for
your acquisition
another um important
point on when to modularize uh that is
especially relevant for people
that do neuroimaging on big data so
that's something that our institute does
frequently
is when there are size uh constraints
that would
when when the sizes of a data set um get
so large that they would
uh impact io performance uh
or any logistics on the file system that
it's on
so um when you have been
when you ever had the chance to try to
break it
then the one way of doing it is if you
add two large files to it that is
um that problem is circumvented with get
annex
but another way to break it is if you
place too many files into a git
repository
so um with one million files you can be
quite certain that git
has has plenty of problems and um does
funky things to your to your computer
um then you wouldn't want to go there
even if it's just an
empty text file that you put into it but
that's
where it stops working
working correctly and
in order to nevertheless version control
data sets that have way more than one
million files so for example the human
connectome project data set that we're
version controlling with more than 15
million
files one way to do it is to just split
it up in data sets that are then
linked together in sub data set
hierarchies which
is a way of keeping everything
operational
and importantly um operational in a
monorepo like fashion due to recursive
operations
um but um uh
still but but without being affected by
those
by those limitations that git has
then um something that we have been uh
finding out or working around with let's
say the uk bio bank data set which is a
data set that
will at completion have thousand
participants
um some file systems don't have space
for that many um sub directories
in a single directory uh sometimes some
prices are kept at 64k other file
systems
struggle with large amounts of inodes so
um
just the amount of files on the file
system can be uh too much and we have
written
a complete chapter in the datalite
handbook on concrete
tips on how to handle such like scaling
up issues
with data that can make it possible to
do reproducible signs even though you do
it on
300 gigabytes or
3 terabytes or 30 terabytes of data and
millions of files
and then one important aspect that
especially those people that
deal with data that falls on the gdpr so
privacy law
um should keep in mind is that there's
an important distinction between
personal
and anonymized data so while you let's
say
well leonard who
is acquiring an fmri study can
place the anonymized fmri
data into a data set that he can share
later with others
he doesn't want to do this with the
dicom files for example
because those are unanimous files that
for example contain the faces of his
participants
and if he separates those two data
entities in separate files
and separate data sets then he can make
sure that he doesn't share
uh removes access from the daikon files
to outsiders whereas
he can freely share the processed
anonymized fmri data how do you know
maybe again two comments so i just
wanted to comment on
the aspect of data set nesting because i
still remember
like having learned about data that
rather recently
that especially this nesting aspect can
be confusing
in the beginning because at least to me
it seemed
like a different like a different way of
organizing
files and directories on my computer
than i was used before so before
i use data that i would usually have
like maybe one
project folder and then
for for example newer imaging project i
would have
a folder for bitstator then next to it i
a folder for fmr prep data and then yet
next to it
a folder for some analysis that then
uses the fml prep data
so you had this illustration before
where you actually nested
um with data that you actually nested
all these data sets
into each other which then basically
means you have your project folder
um well maybe not even the project
folder maybe you do have
a project folder some sort of super data
set that combines all your possible data
sets
but let's say you collected like i
didn't set the dicom data
then this will be one data set and you
will nest this so
on your computer this will be a
subdirectory
of your bits data set whereas maybe if
you use the similar
organization like i did before then
before it was kind of
next to it but now it will be in as a
subdirectory
of this bits data set and then
eventually the bits data set
will be a subdirectory of the fm from
our prep data set
and this will be a subdirectory of the
analysis data set exactly like it's
illustrated here
um so i just wanted to highlight this
point again because i found it
admittedly a bit confusing in the
beginning this uh
type of nesting but then actually and
then also this other aspect that you
mentioned that
data blurs the borders a bit between
um these directories i think that's
definitely
um a very cool and um
aspect of data that but also in the
beginning i thought it was a bit
confusing because
then i would have this bits folder and
then i was reminded aha
that's actually a sub data set and not
just again
like files that i can just access like
i said it's usually not a good idea to
then start
changing the input the input data
just like that but rather keep the input
as it is
and only kind of
update this sub data set in an extra
step
to then up update all upstream analyses
so it requires a bit of rethinking
and i guess that's the only point i
wanted to make here um
but also i think adina will now talk
about something um
how data that makes this linking of
different data sets
um very explicit and in this way
actually very transparent
[Music]
uh yeah and uh also ben and michael
added some important points
to what you have just said so so one
thing that benjamin noted
is that one way of conceptualizing these
super data sets up data set
relationships is
to think about it in terms of
dependencies
like with the software package where you
can conceptualize let's say input data
as a dependency
of the output data that belongs to a
super data set
which is one way i think of
having a mental concept that even with
with something that that may be
perceived as a continued structure makes
sense
and then also uh michael noted um and
that's based on
what what we are doing in the in our
institute is
that uh both representations are
obviously equally
useful and in use depending on what you
actually
want to achieve so this this um
nested are this next to each other
structure
um this can for example as michael
points out
is uh that this can be incredibly
helpful if you just want to archive
a couple of data sets so all of the
studies that have been
taken uh placed in during the last two
years let's say and then having them all
right next to each other simplifies
access uh to them immediately
[Music]
no and i'm just reading out comments and
trying to to attach more content to them
so microsoft for processing those nested
views are more useful
and i like this this graphic here a lot
because it has this
this this pipelining and workflow and
evolution aspect
where someone that reads the paper if
it's shared
in a way that allows it can can trace
back all of the steps and can reuse the
components that they may need
to base their own analysis on them
and when yeah we start processing
our input data then the input data
that's one thing that we distribute
uh globally and then everyone clones
that into the project data sets
processes it however they want and then
that continues
um yeah i just wanted to say actually i
just wanted to write
uh michael about his comment and um
it's exactly the way he proposed that um
i try to set it up now for my current
project where i have
a kind of a super data set that is
really just like a
data set containing other data sets
which are all these
um different subfolders like bits data
raw dicom input data and they all exist
kind of next to each other
but then all of these individual sub
data sets
then contains the other needed data set
as a
as a so-called dependency like ben also
um commented so they each data set then
has
its required data set input dependency
but eventually in this one super data
set project data set they are all kind
of next
to each other really serving more
archiving purposes as michael said
yeah yeah and i think i think once you
want to showcase that
uh it also becomes um much more obvious
for people that
have maybe have no idea what we're
discussing about currently
so you just need to be patient and wait
for the
real life example i think what i just
wanted to transport is that at the
beginning this can be a bit
confusing for example the bits data set
in my case
um this is a kind of dependency or sub
data set for many other
analyses because in the bits data set i
store information
like let's say demographic data of the
participant
or behavioral data that
kind of participants so participants did
the behavioral tasks while they were in
the scanner
so this is the behavioral data as part
of the bits data set so actually in the
analysis sub data in the analysis data
set
if i just want to run a simple
behavioral analysis of the behavioral
data
the bits data set needs to be an input
to this analysis data set
um so then it will be included there but
then also bits is included in the fmi
prep data set and bits might be included
somewhere else so everywhere you can
find this biz folder basically
but it's always the same um yeah bits
data set um that in in this way only
exists
um once but then for for a user that is
more used to
there's just one folder that contains
this data in this kind of next to each
other fashion
it can appear confusing that this bits
folder
appears more and more often in all these
different subdirectories
that's all i just wanted to highlight
yeah
thank you
okay now the second principle that's
record where you got it from and where
it is now
and you've all seen examples of that
already and have gotten a glimpse into
how it works
um and that individual sub data sets can
be can be linked to each other
um and in this dependency like
forms that sub data sets are we can
record where a subdata set came from and
in which version it is linked
we can record where data comes from for
example the png that i downloaded
with data download url um and that may
not be a phd
png that may be a code script that comes
from a github gist or that is shared
from via collaborator or at a blog post
and so forth
um so um recording data origin
is is one way in addition to fulfill
this principle
um then it is important and i've tried
to showcase that already in this very
short script that i've shown you
to keep a data set self-contained with
relative paths and that is also
something that
is true regardless of whether you use
dataled or not
because if you use relative paths that
in your script then you have created a
portable script
that you can move around different
infrastructure if you use relative paths
that do not encode the file system
into your script then you can have it
run
on a computer on a laptop on
a um in first in on
on a compute cluster or on a super
computer and so forth and
if you bundle it up in a digital data
set then it's actually this very
transportable unit that you can just
clone to different places and then
obviously share and publish data sets to
collaborate
that is very very useful
and part of the next session uh here's
again
this information on how data sets are
linked just to give you
another reminder of of how it works so
there is a data set it comes from
somewhere else for example from github
and it is part as it is linked into the
super data set
and what the super data set stores is a
path to where it is
a url where it can be re-retrieved from
later
and a sub-project commit that identifies
the precise version and if that's an
input data set with data you can
really identify in digital
in in a digital entity which data
you used in order to compute a result
and here's
such an example a modular data structure
from
a exemplary and extraordinarily
well maintained neural imaging
example where you have an analysis that
contains code and third-party libraries
may be linked as additional sub data
sets
and the inputs are then this this
hierarchy of sub data sets that
can be traced back to the original bits
data set
that for example came from openneuro and
that you based all of your
analysis on and then the last principle
of recording
what you did do to it and with what is
related to the digital provenance of the
data set contents that you create
and there are data that uh run and data
led containers run commands that can do
this but
uh already um commit messages
commit messages go a long way so you
have a lot of means in a data data set
to to attach a digital provenance
to to your files okay
unless there are questions
so if you have questions then then
please
voice them in the chat or come and
discuss with us
um i want to showcase how
one way works of going beyond a pdf and
sharing code data
and software in the form of
what many people would call a
reproducible paper
or a dynamically generated document
and i wanted to do this as a live coding
session so
where i explore with you how a actually
published
reproducible paper works and i will just
do this
little thumbnail that i like more i'm
going to
go into a temporary location
uh there's a question though i'm
interested how datalit
actually resolves the problem of the
base path to which
the files are relative is that a data
that function just curious
i think micro takes care of that
question in the chat already
okay now you can also just speak up if
that's faster michael
if you want to of course
okay i think i think the question is
somewhat answered in the chat
i will just start to uh demonstrate um
how we have written a reproducible paper
as just one implementation that uses
data that
um to do so so if i click on this click
on
this link it takes me to a publicly
accessible github repository everyone
can go there you can go there you can
join me and do the same thing that i'm
doing
and that's a manuscript that we have
published earlier this year
and you can also read the pdf if you
want to but you can also just create the
pdf for yourself
so um i will just follow what is written
in the readme of this repository
um in order to just give you the idea of
how it is for someone who has not
written this thing with themselves
um so this repository is by no means
like a picture perfect example but it's
something that actually existed and we
wanted to just use this workshop to give
you concrete insights on
real world things that we're doing so
the first thing that this readme
instructs me to do is to create a
virtual environment that is a
secluded python environment that i can
use as a sandbox to just
um to just um
install python packages in so that they
don't interfere with system-wide
installations for example and i'm going
to
create a virtual environment a python
environment and
then i can install the
python dependencies that this paper has
so note that i'm not making use of a
software container here
it could be possible but here we chose
to just go for
a documented readme instead so what i'm
doing is i'm just
downloading the software packages that
are relevant
uh in order to produce the
results so reproduce the results that
are
reported in the paper once this is done
i have the software environment that the
authors of this paper tell me is
necessary
to to recompute it and now that this is
um almost done uh the uh
next instruction is to data that clone
the repository
um uh here and i'm going to do this
i'm just going to copy this from here
later clone
nice sorry i thought
that happens when i live code
uh so now i'm cloning this repository i
need to re-enter the previous virtual
environment
again um here
so now i have the virtual environment
that i've just created
okay and the uh last
um instruction that uh this
readme file has is to run make in the
data set before i do this i just want to
show you
uh how this
repository looked like just after i
cloned it so
um importantly what i want you to note
is that there's no pdf
instead what you can see here is
the um the the leftovers or the
the um the setup for what latte
that's a typesetting program needs in
order to create a pdf so there's
a hash file which contains the
manuscript sources
and there is a bib file which is lattice
way of storing references
and a file that's called results.take
which i will
talk about later and some style and
class
files that are relevant for lattice
if i take a look at the data repository
directory then you can see that there
are some
directories in there but if i take a
look at the directory hierarchy
in there you can see that those look
like empty directories
and um those i actually have sub data
sets that are
uh not yet retrieved so i haven't data
let get
i haven't run data let get on these
files and if i take a look at the
image um directory
then you can see that there are some
images already included
but probably fewer images than would be
expected
in a in a scientific manuscript
so if i now run make there's going to be
plenty of stuff that happens and i have
a couple of minutes while this runs
it's luckily a very fast computation to
just talk about
uh what is happening and just some
insights on on what is
what is going on here now the problem
that i'm
in principle facing here is that this
paper that we have written
has been has been growing for months and
we've extended the analysis that we have
run
and so it's it's quite difficult a quite
quite elaborate setup to and and quite
difficult to explain
when you take a look at the finished
product but i will make an attempt to do
so
and i would like to show you a much more
distilled down
and reduced template where you can try
to do the same
thing on your own which is which is
easier now what is currently happening
is that the algorithm that we wrote
in this paper and and and with this what
this paper is about
is computing uh results um
and you can see that whenever we have
these progress bars here
there is data led in the background at
work downloading the required data
to perform the computations that
are necessary from the sub data sets
that are linked in this repository
something that makes the output of this
reproducible paper very wordy
is the print statements um or the the
these
these weird um new command definitions
that are
printed to the terminal and i will shed
some light
later on how that works exactly but
um what this leads to is the fact
that these results that are numerical
elements that are part of the result
tables that are included
in the paper are not hard coded in the
paper but
currently basically read from what is
computed
and then dynamically incorporated into
the finished manuscript so
[Music]
what you will later see as finished
tables in the paper
has never existed in that form in the
original text manuscript
it has been included on the go
during the computation that i'm
currently running
and what is very nice about this setup
is that i as a consumer of this paper
only had to run the command make
in order to get everything going and
this is what this
guidance rule of the uh computational
reproducibility guideline refers to
and this is one way of implementing it
and i will let it
show you the contents of the makefile
which are actually not
not very complex or much shorter than
you probably expect them to be
because the make file basically
orchestrates everything in the correct
order
it's not a data led run command but it's
an alternative
uh way to to to schedule the appropriate
time for the execution of the various
functions
of the manuscript building and so forth
and we're still downloading data and
installing sub data sets and you can see
also that the algorithm that
is executed here produces some output
into the terminal
and we just have to wait for a couple of
seconds longer and i
take a zip of my teeth
adina i have one question actually so
what i also noticed what i also just saw
in your output is
that if you're cloning
or like installing a sub data set that
sometimes you get this message that the
sub module had gets detached
and i was i was wondering about that
because i thought
that um within the dot git modules
um file the specific
path or the specific commit of the sub
data set is recorded
and but then if the head is detached
like shouldn't it be always be kind of
up to date or is it just letting you
know that the
input data set has evolved from that and
you're actually at a previous commit
um for your current data set uh could be
both
it also happens if you have recorded
a a subproject commit that isn't
actually published and then it will
reset it
but transparently in a recorded fashion
into the
one state that is the the most recent
one in this installation but it also
happens like if there's
if there if if it has evolved further
um okay so now there was plenty of
output because what you have seen was
inkscape rendering figures and
then lattice doing its magic which is
also always
very wordy thing to happen
if you compile lattice in the terminal
and if i open up the resulting pdf that
has now
freshly been created on my computer as a
consumer of this data set
then i have a scientific manuscript that
looks just like
any scientific manuscript um it
has uh tables um like these ones here
and it has figures like these ones here
and more tables
and more figures and even more figures
and the important
on very nice aspect of this manuscript
is that all of these figures weren't
existing and none of the results were
parted in the table were existing
when i cloned this repository from
github because if i take a look
into the text file that i'm
using here and i'm really sorry for
everyone who is not used to
working with lartech because seeing
latte when you're not used to it
looks more complex than it actually is
um
unfortunately but
here are the content of this of this of
this
text file and if i go to let's say
a um a
line where i can show you
a table then you will see here's a table
but this table does not include any
numeric results so i never had to
hand copy paste um results
from my from my from my interactive
python sessions but from
from any outputs but the table that is
created here
references variables large variables
that have a name that i can identify
and the place where these variables come
from
is specified in
this chart input statement here it reads
them from a
results def test file so
even though this looks quite complex the
only thing that i wanted to demonstrate
here is that there are no results that
are hard
coded in the script but they are
embedded with a little bit
of lar technology from an external file
and the results that uh dev test file
this is a file that only com
includes the output that has been
printed to my terminal
while i was running make on that uh
in this repository so it's so it's a
verbatim
um copy of the standard output stream of
everything that has been printed into my
terminal
during make i will show you in the make
file how this is executed
and i can show you the very simple
thing that in the code script
that is included here performs
this this
this thing which are
simple print statements that
for example here just
compute whatever result it is i want to
compute
and print them in a new command
expression and the new command
expression if you're not used to latter
is one way of defining a lattice
variable like the one that i've included
in the tables and now the only
piece of magic that is left to the
silver is what is in the make file
and the make file is is really quite
short
it says if you have not been
so if you're not used to to seeing make
files it's a
fabulous and very robust and incredibly
old construct
which you can um basically think of as a
recipe
that tells you which um things
are dependencies of one another and
executes them
based on time stamps in the correct
order so what
uh this makefile says is that the final
result that this recipe should build is
main pdf and in order to build main pdf
it needs to execute the following
command which is a large may command
which
is an is a large compiling tool that can
do
references and and main manuscript
generation uh quite nicely
and in order to execute this command um
the following files need to be there on
the following
the following um steps need to be done
first maintain
references that the results that take
figures and
in order to for example create
this dependency the make file
needs to run the following command
which is done if the following file is
there
and that command boils down to
um execute the script that makes figures
and stats
and then type the outputs of this file
which do all of these print statements
with the
unix t command into the results test
file
so it's really just a unix hack of
redirecting some streams into another
file
and that file can then be integrated
into the manuscript with this
simple input statement and in order to
make the figures
um there's some inkscape rendering that
transforms the sv
cheese to pdf to in order to look nicer
but that's basically already all of the
magic that has happened in this make
file it's
execute the script which has some print
statements
and then save whatever it outputs into a
separate file that you can
can include into the manuscript to embed
your uh results on the fly and that's
one way of doing it
and uh it's arguably not the most easy
one
it's just that i'm a weird person and
like latte
and and those unix pipes and so forth
but what i also wanted to show you
is um some of the advantages that the
datalit has
been giving me throughout this uh or us
throughout this
process um and and how data that is used
in this more complex project
so if i uh run the data let's update
this
commands again then uh you can see that
the
at this level of the um data set there
are already some
uh sub data sets available so raw eye
gaze and study forest data eye movement
labels that
that that's input data and remote enough
that
is the algorithm the software that we're
using
um and and reporting in this paper if i
operate the same command recursively
then i can get
an even larger list of data sets because
now also the
sub data sets of our sub data sets are
reported and one thing that i
wanted to talk about just because i
really enjoyed having this feature of
datalit
um at this point is the following sub
data set where i will just quickly
uh go into and demonstrates something
so um this
data set is a data set that we used for
testing our algorithm on actual data and
we don't know the people that have made
this data
available it's really kind of them super
cool
and we've made use of it it's an
incredibly useful data set for us
so thank you to the people that have
have made that
that public thank you uh dr anderson um
but um the thing was that we have
computed we had computed
all of the results like the manuscript
was basically ready
and i was writing the discussion to this
paper
and i found another paper that also used
the same data set for a different
purpose
and they reported that they found an
error and fixed it
in the input data set there was a
labeling mistake
that they had to fix prior to computing
their analysis and just to be sure i
went
into this data set and checked whether
this fix
was contributed upstream so whether the
people that originally found the problem
actually fixed it in the original data
set so
thankfully a sub data set has its
original history
so i can go take a look and i you can
see that
um this dataset came into existence in
2018 and in
2016 and in 2018 richard anderson
uploaded a folder that consists of the
data files that they used in their
publication and i checked
the file where the errors were reported
and i found out that the error was not
indeed fixed so what i did was i
opened up an issue and said okay there's
this paper it reports an error and it
has fixed it
um shall we fix the data upstream for
you and they said
yes sure so i submitted a pull request
where i re-labeled everything that was
an error in the respective data file and
that commit was merged
now what this means is that the data
that existed in 2019 and the data that
existed in 2018
they are different and different data
means that results change
and that's a general and large threat to
reproducibility
if you don't make it transparent which
data you're basing
your computations are and because i can
link the sub data set in the 2019
version or in the 2018 version i can
make it quite clear
which data i'm using but beyond that
because i have
used this large-based setup of
a dynamically reproducible manuscript i
don't need to recompute all of that
all of these results by hands and i
don't need it to hand copy paste and
check
every single file but i just had to run
one
more make in this data set to have
everything
updated in the data set in the
manuscript again automatically
and at this point the time that i spend
the extra time to
not copy paste tables but create those
tables with these variables
that was well made up because that was
one minute whereas i would have spent
probably two days
on recomputing something when the data
has changed so that's something that i
can generally
recommend a lot to do and
um so as a quick disclaimer that's not
the only way to do it
i know that there are people in the
audience aaron and i think andreas if
he's still there
that have uh authored a really nice
preprint
uh on how to do this with our markdown
and uh
lana will also showcase how he has done
it with our markdown
i also want to say this is not the
easiest way to do it and never
i never really want to i never want to
claim that but it's one way of doing it
and it's the one that fits my style
because it's it's the
the tools that i've been using anyway uh
and you can redo this with the tools
that you're familiar with
and you can um you can
you can connect you can use data led in
a way
for example to only connect the data to
the results
uh or to the repositories uh that
contain your analysis
and in order to make the setup a little
bit more transparent we have created
a template that uh is
much simpler than this in this real life
example
where we have distilled everything down
to the basic principles of how this
works
where there's a cut down script
which is only the classification
analysis that i have already shown you
in the basic session
that computes
a very um so the analysis that you
already know
and then uh includes the analysis
results into
a lattice file and a make will produce
the dynamically generated manuscript
with freshly embedded results for you
and if you want to you can take this
template and
explore it and adapt it to your use case
if you are interested in redoing
such a latte based reproducible
manuscript with
a kind of easier start than this very
complex
already finished product
and there's a hands-on that we have
planned with this but i would probably
place it at the end of the session to
just um
gorge people's interest in whether they
are interested in it
and leonard can now show you how to do
it in a not weird way that
is making use of more modern tools that
are easier to use
thank you adina can you quickly make me
present her again
yes when i find you
um yeah
should be good to go
okay can you see the screen
[Music]
all right um cool
thank you alina um i think um that's
the uh your reproducible paper that you
just presented first of all i think it's
really awesome in general and in a very
cool workflow but also i think your
example of
um really nicely highlights how
important it is
that you can easily recompute results
and
fix errors in input data
which we basically talked about in the
beginning right that data can change
there can be errors that can be fixes
and
you need to be able to tell which
version of the data you work with
so yeah like idina introduced i just
wanted to highlight a slightly different
approach which might be interesting to a
few people
who also use r um so i actually
like using r i learned it during my
masters and then kind of continued with
it
um because i also like the plotting and
r and so on um
so i actually use it quite a bit um and
um also r as many as our users would
probably know
our users um our offers this
feature of our markdown notebooks
so you can basically combine analysis
code
with text so markdown based text
to kind of have a narrative around
your code and your results and integrate
it all in one
notebook and then you can render this to
different types of outputs
for example html or pdf so
theoretically you could also write an
entire paper or book
or whatever in our markdown and then
render it
into one long paper
um and so i just
present one output here that i um did
just actually for fun
to try a few things out for actually my
current project so
um as i mentioned multiple times i uh
very recently
acquired new fmri data and if someone is
interested how
acquiring data during the pandemic works
i can tell you more about it later it's
a lot of fun
a lot of disinfectant that you need to
spray everywhere
um anyway so
what you can see here is a rendered
markdown file rendered is html and
actually as you can see
up here it's actually um
a url so this is a website not just
an html file that i opened in
my browser and i will tell you in a
second how
i get this html file to this website um
but first of all so um i just want to
walk you through the basics
of this html and what it does so it's a
very simple script
the only thing it does it is supposed to
analyze some demographic data of the
participants that i collected in my fmri
study
and um so there are different ways how
to do it
um here i just show in the beginning
um which are packages i um use
um and they are loaded up here and then
i actually get the participants
data and i load it into our markdown
and so here you can see the path of this
data
and the input data in this case actually
comes
from a bitstator set so i converted my
mri data to the brain imaging data
structure
which is a community standard for
organizing mri data
and these bits data sets usually have
what is called a participant's tsv file
and according to the business
documentation
like i wrote here or cited them here
the purpose of this participant's tsv
file is
um to describe properties of
participants such as
age sex and handling so i created this
participants
file for my study in a bit data set and
i
load it into our markdown and with our
markdown there's a package
called dt that you can use to
render a nice table that you can look at
and you can
go through all the rows of all the
participants um
to look at the raw input data um
so actually now i will switch to the um
view of the repository to see kind of
the structure of the
data set um and
which is up here um so it's simply
called
zootest because i tested a bunch of
stuff um
and zoo was the my study name and that's
why there's a cute turtle up here
and you can see here that you can find
this our magnet file that i mentioned
it's just here in the root of the
project directory
and um then you can see
files that you now should know from
belong to dataled or
the data that creates like the skid
modules file um
or the git attributes file and actually
here you can see
this bits folder that you saw before in
the path
and this actually is a data led sub data
set
um so actually i'm on github now so this
is the
gitlab instance of the mpib so actually
i could
now click on this link
and it will bring me to my biz data set
which is an entirely
independent um data in a data set with
my
biz convert data so here you can see a
typical structure
of this bits data set actually i took
the liberty to add a bunch of other
files
that you can ignore bits however i hope
stefan is not mad at me for that
so this way you can see this is
completely independent
and i just use it in my
analysis kind of upstream and use it as
an input
data set so basically
yeah and then i read this participant's
tsv file but it's not
directly part of this data set but
rather a sub data set that
you include here so back to the script
um so what i
can then can do with our markdown um i
can do
fun things similar to what adina did in
large
i can do things like that for example i
can write a sentence that says
participants were on average m equals
24.21 years old
and this sentence i actually didn't
write it directly into the text
part of the smartdown file but instead i
used
r code um to actually calculate
um the mean data of the participants and
round it to um two to the second decimal
place
um and then included this code chunk
into the sentence and it actually makes
more sense when we look at the
maybe the raw data files the source code
which you can see
here um
exactly so this is how it's included in
our markdown
and um and that way
when we render this our markdown file it
shows up like this and that's a very
nice way how we can just generally
integrate
um actual computations on actual data
with the narrative around the data and
then we can either do other stuff like
for example
um i can
create a nice pie chart which i don't
recommend to do in an extra publication
because i was told that no serious
researchers uses pie charts
but still in this case i can do it to
just show
how many female and male participants
are my data set
and finally i can list the computational
environment so there's a
in a very simple way i can just
list the r version and packages that
were used there's a special command in r
for that called session info and then it
lists
um all here up here is the r version
and down here are some of the packages
that were used
so um that's just a very similar
workflow that adena presented just using
different tools
and of course this can be extended you
can use multiple markdown my
act on markdown files and combine them
and actually integrate more data maybe
the last kind of interesting bit that is
remaining there was actually the purpose
where i created this
simplified repo um was how i could
get um this website and we mentioned one
aspect um earlier um that is
um continuous integration um which
um i'm not in for the first one i'm not
an expert on this so maybe
um someone else or adena you want to
chime in to explain this in more detail
but basically continuous integration
means that um or
software developers use it a lot um to
basically
when you push changes to a repository
that
then a certain script is executed and
runs some computations on the data or
for example some tests we mentioned unit
tests today
so you could actually run some tests on
the data um
to see if something has changed about
the input data
and then um and
you can do this automatically without
you needing to execute
um these scripts and the interesting
part um
which is possible both with git lab but
also with
github is that you can also host web
pages on gitlab and
github so basically when i create this
our markdown file
this creates an html file and because an
html file i can easily
use as a website and i do this through
continuous integration
and disclaimer i think that's not the
most
ideal way to set things up but in this
very basic version
what i basically did and i will briefly
walk you through it
so this shows you the file that kind of
configures this continuous integration
um and adina mentioned
containers before so here i'm actually
using
a very old um data led container so i
think the
most recent version is 0.13 something
right
um and so here it is a very old version
of data that
0.11.7 um that chris markovich
um created at some point so i didn't
even create this container i just use it
for my purposes right
um so even if you have um no clue i
don't understand how to create
containers yourself you can still use
them and use containers that others
created and
then i do a bunch of other things and
actually
so what i do here i um install a tool
called rclone
and this is a kind of a primer for our
later session when we talk about
configuring our clone remotes which is
another way
to publish data to
different types of data storage systems
and
here i'm going to use rclone to get the
bits data set
from from
this c file remote repository where the
data is stored
and as you can see here in this
continuous integration
the script basically gets the original
bits data set and
or kind of clones the original bits data
set enables the storage system that i'm
using using in this file
in this case keeper and then it gets
this participant ds
tsv file and it then um
basically provides this file as a
so-called build artifact so it provides
this
folder with the bits data to the next
stage
and at this next stage i'm using yet
another container in this case
a container for r which is called rocker
which has all the packages i need um for
my r markdown script
and then i simply execute an r script
command
and in this case our markdown render
that renders this demographics markdown
file that i showed you before
to an html document and the final bit is
that to actually publish this
markdown document as a website i
need to put this html file um in
to a folder called public and rema
rename it
to index.html so that's what you can see
here so i create a new repository pub
new directory public and i move the
demographics html that was created by
the command before and i move it
move it and rename it to it so move it
to public
and rename it to index html and the end
product again is this publix folder
and from this gitlab is able to um
yeah create this website but this then
ends up as
the rendered website that we're looking
at now um
i think that was a bit kind of two of
the force through like all these steps
and it incorporated a lot of different
things
um this setup of our clone and how i get
the data
we will um present this in a dedicated
workflow later during the
final session but this is just to
highlight
um how you can use for example
continuous integration
to also automatically get data from sub
data sets
and then run automatic computations on
this data set
and this website in this case i have to
admit it's not public
but you can make this public and make it
then available to others
um also but also you can keep it private
if
you want to be more secretive about your
project but then you can still add for
example your supervisor
and um then when you have a meeting with
your supervisor you could just
um send them the link to this
rendered html document and this way you
have a very nice way to
look at recent results um that you
created um
if there's are there any questions about
that i have a feeling it was a bit
rushed and a lot of
weird details that are maybe hard to
grasp at the beginning um
but this is just as an illustration of
what you can do
and where you can bring lots of
different tools together so in this case
our markdown continuous integration
and data led obviously
see there just check another question
[Music]
okay stefan asked about how i get
different outputs from other tools into
our markdown
um exactly like ivan said like you can
also use
other languages in our markdown i think
similar to jupiter notebooks you can
combine actually across multiple um
languages um i haven't tried that so far
but what i kind of do here
um which is a well simplified version
if you just want to show the contents of
some other script like
a python script or a bash script um you
can also do it in that way so for
example here i just include
this gitlab ci file which is
a yaml file and then it should just be
displayed as part of this our markdown
file
but it's actually not executed so um
i think if you if you want to execute
both
our markdown code or our code and python
code within the same continuous
integration
um yeah then you would need to
set specific um chunks within this r
markdown file
that then also can execute python code
um it's possible but
i personally haven't tried it before um
yeah and i was also posting a different
link of a different package called book
down
[Music]
which which i think its main strength is
to combine across
multiple markdown files um
so you can create another markdown file
where you analyze the behavior data
and then you analyze some other data
maybe that comes out of your mri
pipeline and then you can combine them
to
[Music]
in the end one paper if you want to
any more questions about the markdown
pipeline
[Music]
someone is typing so let's wait for that
can you share the code uh yes sure um
i actually yeah i will do that um
maybe not now because then i'm too
distracted but uh
later um sure
[Music]
that's also there's also an improved
version like i said
this um gitlab especially the continuous
integration part it's not ideal as you
can see it uses
a quite old version of datalat and
um also this
rocker image especially this um
docker image verse actually con includes
a lot of
r stuff i think it even contains
the full rstudio installation
so when you run this i mean this this
this code is executed
and this can take quite a while so um
i spoke to our uh sysadmin um
michael carlse and um he already
recommended
several ways to me how i could improve
um
this continuous integration and actually
maybe start to write my own
docker files that are reduced to only
the stuff i need
um but as i mentioned before i think if
you get started with docker
or containers in general it sometimes
helped just to
use containers that other people
have built and then maybe look at how
they build it and then
you start making your own changes to it
thank you so much i think our markdown
is an incredibly powerful
alternative tool in general
and even if we have lost some people in
the audience with this
um with this with this overview of uh
workflows that we
in our own um day-to-day science um use
the one take-home message that that we
we
definitely want to try to to get to
people is
is not how in particular these things
these things work although we're happy
to share the code of course and the
template
with the python and artich setup should
definitely get you started
and it's well commented and and
documented
but what we are trying to show you is
that
even though we have a lot of different
tools between the two of us that we're
using
and that we know about and that we find
valuable
we just connect them um in an
interoperable fashion in order to create
something new and i think that's
something
that is often lacking in in tutorials or
in
informal teaching sessions this this
knowledge of hey i can actually be
creative here and i can take the tools
that i
use and just stick them together puzzle
them together into something new
and in my opinion once i started to
think in this
in this interoperable or in this
piecewise way where i can just pick
whatever i want whatever i
already use whatever i find uh whatever
i'm comfortable in using
or interested in and then figure out how
i can integrate it into workflow
that that that suits me well um i got
uh it it's getting really fun and it's
it's
definitely a nice feeling once you have
all of this
software stack that that you have
connected and then it works and
and it's getting easier and easier to
work uh
to to get to work and now that i've seen
how our markdown works
i'm actually quite quite envious that's
a really cool setup
that i should look more into especially
since i now learned from iowan that i
can also improve the other programming
languages into it
maybe just because um i haven't
mentioned it um this
package are packaged book down so um
just to show you so i actually also used
that before
so oh no that's a different one um
ah there we go so um that's
a very basic um overview of what book
down looks like so
um basically here i'm trying what i
mentioned before
trying to combine across multiple
markdown files and then eventually
combining them into something
that is maybe closer to a paper or some
sort of report
and you can see on the left you have to
you can have these different sections
and you could write um an introduction
and actually this is not complete yes i
just dropped some
citations there so you can also include
um
bib files so biblatech files that
contain your references and you can
include them in our markdown and
basically cite them
um so if you are skimming through what i
my notes in this introduction it's
really just notes right this is
this is super early work so bear with me
it's not close to anything
complete like i said i just acquired the
data um
as you can see i'm interested in kind of
cognitive maps and
replay and stuff um actually here you
can see this
participant's file again
actually with the same pie chart that i
showed you before
and i think i added a bit more stuff and
information about the participants and
how the study was conducted
and about the task and so on and um
another thing that i started here in the
um in the supplementary
um that's what i mentioned before so
this goes into the direction also what
stefan asked about including different
code
so here um i'm just showing
so this is just kind of passively
showing other code that i use for
example
to convert my data to bits um which i do
on our high con
high performance cluster um i use a
batch script so this is just
showing you um the bash script for
example that i use to convert my data to
bits
but this is also really just meant as a
compute as a documentation basically
so that in this rendered version someone
who's interested and
doesn't want to like just want to get an
overview of the script that i used
um could go to the supplementary
basically and look at the individual
scripts that for example
converted my data bits or um
defaced the data or stuff like that um
but it's not it's not as cool as what
stefan
is after to really compute with
different
programming language languages in one
notebook document
this would be another great idea thanks
for sharing
[Music]
okay i'm going to steal the presenter
back from you i realized
that um we are running really late so uh
and i've also already spotted some some
very good questions
in the um in the shared document so
what i will do now is i'm okay quick
quick summary so i hope that it became
clear
how a reproducible paper is is very
useful
but also that there are many tools that
allow you to create a reproducible paper
and they're probably
even more than the two ways of doing it
that leonard and i have just shown you
uh and
and it's it's it's an a way of creating
research
that um may interest you and then you
can pursue it
and we hope that we gave you the
inspiration
if you have never done something like
that to try it out maybe in your next
project or just
as a as a as a nice uh distraction from
work if you're up to it
um the setup has a number of advantages
that are definitely contributing to
a more reproducible scientific
procedure so for one it saves you time
that's something that's not only
a benefit for reproducibility but it's a
benefit for you
it's it's it saves you time even though
it you need to think into the standup of
course but
in the end uh in my personal experience
it was a it was a lifesaver and
time saver you also have this framework
of collaboration
and i will just quickly show you here
the um
the uh um repository
history the data set history that we
have accumulated throughout
the um the the lifetime of this project
where the three authors that have worked
together on this project
um and we were spread over multiple
continents while we were writing this
paper
have been able to collaborate in real
time uh because this was
a repository on github that we can
easily access
and then just um push our updates to
uh one thing that certainly helps um
with the general well-being of the
scientists in my opinion
is that a paper like this um helps you
to gain confidence in the validity of
your results because you cannot miss
type you cannot miss copy that cannot be
a switch decimal place your code is
public and you have your co-authors
and the general public and the reviewers
look over it and it's much
more likely that people can find and fix
mistakes
which contributes to the overall
progress of science
so making a mistake is completely human
and that always happens
and so many mistakes that i did in this
paper were found by others
and i was incredibly grateful that the
published document
has had all of these people look over it
and
eradicate all of the mistakes that they
found it also makes a more convincing
case with research
if you are able to do something like
this because it
allows others to verify what you've done
to check the code
to also adjust the code and you can make
your research accessible and importantly
adaptable for everyone so if someone
comes around and says hey
um the algorithm that you wrote that's a
nice toy
but i i can do that better definitely
and
this person can just take the the
algorithm play with the code
rerun the same analysis on the same data
for example check whether the results
are better or not
and just tweak it and that in my opinion
accelerates the pace in which we can
make progress so
uh in my opinion that's something that
that is worthwhile to
pursue and it's also definitely fun it's
so that paper
i'm really proud of that paper it's i'm
it's making me
physically happy i got so much serotonin
out of that
um i i can recommend it
and now i will just quickly run through
the software environment section where i
just share a couple
of um of code snippets and and tool
recommendations
for sharing software environments with
the data like containers extension
just so that we can get to the
publishing section
as well so there are two reasons
two main reasons i think why it's very
useful to share software containers
one it is difficult and sometimes even
impossible
to install software especially if you're
in a field that uses let's say
quite complex software for example in
neural imaging where we have tools like
aphny or fsl
um and stuff like that that can be a
pain to install
also on let's say high-performance
compute clusters where you don't have
administrative rights to install those
tools
or if the tools that you need in the
precise versions that you need them
conflict with system-wide installations
so sharing a software environment helps
the
person that executes the code
to not have to go through two days of
hell to install whatever is necessary
to perform an analysis and that person
can very well be yourself too
another reason why sharing software
environments is really important
as provenance is the different software
versions
or different software that has been uh
software that has been compiled with
different compilers on different
operating systems
with different versions of compilers can
produce
different results so here's an example
of a study from
2015 by tristan glattard and
what they just found is that they
compared common software
that neuroscientists or images use that
has been compiled in different operating
systems and
executed on different operating systems
and what
they found for example
is that different versions of the same
compiler
resulted in different floating point
precisions
and so what you can see here hopefully a
little bit
with these red highlighted um floating
point values
in this result that two different
versions of the same compiler
produced a difference in in results and
that's dangerous
because uh you don't want to have um
when you when you're really um focused
on on computational reproducibility
then you don't want to have the extra
uncertainty
that is added by different floating
point precision or
slight slight differences and floating
points because they can depending on
what you're researching
really have a huge impact so if you can
encapsulate a software environment
that can be kept the same across
people that run it then that can prevent
such such things
so um software containers um
if for those that have never heard of
software containers
they encapsulate a software environment
and isolate it from the host operating
system that it runs on
and there are two common solutions
docker and singularity that i'm
quickly talking about but there are many
more um
but i also don't know much about those
other solutions so i'm sticking to those
two
solutions that i'm aware of and that
datalit can work with
um i wanted to quickly ask you
um how familiar you are with software
containers just to get
an idea of um what you
what you know already so have you ever
heard about software containers in
general
um in this cool
that's that's something nice um
have you ever used a software container
perfect then that's that's very nice and
then
have you ever created a software
container yourself
cool so for the people that said no
it's absolutely no requirement to ever
produce a software containing yourself
because there
for more standard solutions are already
pre-made containers that you can just
use
but i hope that i can shed some light on
on how
i um use sub tools that help me to
create software containers
where it's actually much easier than one
um would
think it is so um just as a quick
introduction and i'm very happy that
this is a virtual
curse so no computer scientist can throw
rotten tomatoes at me
i'm trying to explain software
containers but i'm a clinical
psychologist so you know how
how well that will work so the software
container
is if i overly simplify it a cut down
virtual machine
and it is a portable and shareable
bundle of software libraries and their
dependencies
and it includes a couple of things
namely code
runtime system tools system libraries
and settings of the software
that you want your software environment
to have but
it does not include certain things like
the resource management
that the host operating system so
whatever computer
you're using whatever that computer runs
provides
so i took this graphic from the docker
website where you have a docker
container or a singularity container
that's what this little
icon here is that basically sits on top
of the host operating system
and gets the resource management from
there but
the container um includes
everything else that it needs to have an
encapsulated isolated software
environment that you can ship to others
and where you can have multiple
different
applications basically in software
containers
on the same system running which is a
useful thing to do
um and just for a quick glossary
because i myself often had problems to
to to distinguishing those terms when i
started to learn about containers
um there are uh four or four
vocabularies that that i want to
distinguish
or that i just want to quickly explain
when we talk about the container recipe
then what we mean is a text file
template that
basically just lists all of the required
components of
the software uh environment that we want
to create and in the case of docker
that's a dockerfile
and in the case of singularity that's a
definition file and those files
typically end with a dot def extension
now
from this recipe you can build an
image and the image is just a static
file system
that is populated with the software that
is specified in the recipe
it basically describes all of the
software that you wanted to
run in in in the software environment
and when we call something a container
then that is actually
a running instance of an image so of
this static file system
which is actually in use and so when you
when you build a container uh or when
you build uh
when you use a container and make it
from scratch you start by writing a
recipe file
build it into a con into an image
and then run that image in order to have
a container instance that you can use
with the software that you specified in
the recipe
and then there's also the concept of a
hub which is a storage resource
that you can use to share your own uh
images uh or where you can consume
images from
and docker and singularity hub they each
have their own hub docker hub versus
singularity hub
and they are really really useful
resources
um so what's the reason for those two
solutions
um docker has existed a little bit
longer than singularity
and docker is a widely popular container
solution
but docker has a really large
disadvantage it requires admin
privileges
in order to run when you execute a
when you when you use a docker container
in a system that um you have
full admin privileges on and that's no
problem at all
but the problem arises when you are on
shared computational clusters
because if you execute a uh
um if you if you are in a container uh
in a docker container you will be
rude so you will be admin you will have
pseudo rights
and on chat computational infrastructure
this is disastrous because this can
do a lot of harm to shared
infrastructure shared data
other people's data and so forth and no
sane synthesis administrator
will ever let you in that you install
docker
on their system so singularity was
created as the scientific alternative to
docker so to say
and singularity is um built to run
on computational clusters the way that
the main difference is that when i um
use a container
i am the same user outside as inside
of the of the container so i don't have
elevated privileges
which makes singularity a safe and
employable solution
on computational clusters um it's also a
little bit easier to access
gpus with singularity containers and run
graphical applications
but uh the main advantages is that this
type of container solution is portable
to
hpc infrastructure um
singularity however is very very user
friendly
towards docker images so if you're using
singularity then
singularity can actually use a docker
image pull
a docker image or build a docker image
and and run it
uh natively which is a very nice thing
so if you have something if you have a
docker recipe or image then you can
use singularity to run it
which is nice and data that can register
both docker and singularity images to
data sets
um and it does so with the data like
containers extension
so i've shown you already how i have
used it
but just to add a little bit more
details to that so a data that extension
in general
is a python package a standalone thing
that
basically powers data that up it's just
an additional range of commands
that once you have installed the
extension get added to the datalit
command suit if you
install data like containers you get
four additional commands data
containers add data containers list data
containers run
and i forgot the fourth one but uh
in this way uh extensions work and
there's also
other uh examples for example data osf
which lets you publish data sets
and clone data sets from the open
science framework and so forth
or detail attorney which is useful for
converting
dicom data sets into bit structured data
sets
um and uh here's how to install data
light container
it's a pip it's pip installable so you
can just go with pip install data light
container if you're on a mac it's
probably pip3 if it's
recent operating system um
and the way that datalet does this
is really simple because a software
container even if it's the layers of a
docker
image is just another file in your data
set basically so
datalet conceptualizes the software
environment is nothing in
nothing particular spectacular for it
just sees it
as another type of file that it just
saves into the dataset
and can register it from its url or from
the paths that you have
installed it from and because in the
basics i only have shown you one way of
installing
or adding a software environment to your
data set i just had
uh encode have encoded concrete code
examples on how to do this here in
slides
so first of all i'm going to show you
how to do it with singularity images
first question maybe first i'm showing
you how to add singularity images
from a path so in the basic section i
added
a singularity image from singularityhub
with url
but you can also do it from a path the
first question may be
how can you get singularity images and
one way to do it is you can pull it um
either from
docker or from singularityhub you can
see two examples of how this is done
where i'm just pulling different images
that are hosted and singularity works
with both of these hubs
you can also take or write a recipe file
and then build a computer then build a
container sorry an image
on your computer uh one thing that's
inconvenient here is that you need to do
it with
a pseudo so elevated privileges and i'm
going to show you a work around how
you can circumvent this and
once you have a singularity image
pulled or built uh in on your local
system
these things just lie around as one
single file and they typically have
have a dot zip or the extension
depending on the version of singularity
that you're running
and then you can point data that
containers add
simply to the path on your file system
where that container lies
and dataled will register that container
to your dataset and is able to use it
afterwards
and if you then do a database containers
list then it will show you
all of the the computational
environments that are registered and
available for use
note that you can give unique names to
your containers and that's
later that's that's important because
you want to
precisely identify which container you
are using in the data like containers
one command so the
name of the container is a required
argument
and what's nice about singularity images
is that they are a single file
and you will see with docker it looks a
little a little bit
more more chaotic when you use them
but i wouldn't i would advise against
using a path to add a singularity image
because that is not as portable
if the registered location is on your
local file system
so instead i would always advise to
register
images from a public url because then
you can on other infrastructure or
others can on their infrastructure
retrieve the image very easily so here
is the here is another example of adding
a singularity image from singularityhub
from a url and this is a publicly
accessible url that others can
simply data let get the container from
um
if they need it and where a data led
rerun of a data that containers run run
record will retrieve the
the container automatically from and
my workflow personally to just share
with you how
i do it when i um create my own um
images because it's it's actually it so
it's it's not that
that complex and many people make it
sound quite complex
but it's something that with a couple of
um helper tools actually
actually works works nicely and you can
you have a steep learning curve but
you can get to building your own
singularity images
fairly fairly soon so i have a really
basic workflow i'm almost ashamed
uh because it's so so easy and and i'm
using so many tools to help you but it
works for me so maybe it's
helpful if i share this so what i do is
i create a data set
and then i use a tool that is called
neural docker
that helps me to create a recipe file
and it's really really simple anurodaka
is one of the tools that
repronym is maintaining and it's
it's made for easy installations or for
easy creation of docker singularity
images of neural imaging software
and i use a datalit run command to
create a singularity recipe by neuron
docker and then i link the repository
that i host on github to singularityhub
where i can
log in with my github account it's free
service and singularityhub then
ingests the recipe if i enable that and
builds the image on on their web service
which is very nice because i don't need
to use sudo to build the image
and then i get a public url from which
anyone can
register this image from so here's a
quick demo
here is one of the repositories that i
use whenever i need to
write a singularity image for the data
led handbook it's a really small
really really small uh repository it
only has
this directory ends and in this
directory ends
i have a shell script that's called
generate
sh and it's i'm really cheating here but
um here is what this uh this this script
executes it's just
a docker run command of a
public docker image
of the neurodocker container and nora
docker
makes it really easy to create
singularity or docker recipes
i tell neurodocker to generate a
singularity image
i want to base it on a certain operating
system
i want to have a certain package manager
and here i can now
for example specify the precise
um software that that i need to have
installed
and this is a very minimal example
that's a tiny tiny file
but neurodoctor has ready to use
commands and examples to really
for example if you have the need for
very complex software libraries
um where you can just add them as one
argument
to your to your invocation of
neurodoctor
and that writes the singularity recipe
into a
file i am lazy and have a bad shot to
memory so
whenever i change this script i
do it a data that run of a
initial data run command that created
the first singularity recipe for me
and then i don't need to write a single
line of this recipe
myself which is a nice feature to have
and i can then um go to whoops
singularity hub um saying you
already have it's a free service and
i have i can log in with github
and i then have my collections which are
all of the repositories where i have
enabled singularityhub to build
container
images for me and then i get this
collection
where my singularity images are being
built
you can see that the status is complete
whenever i push an update to github
the container will be rebuilt and this
is the url from which i can then
pull the singularity image so that's
something that has been working really
well for me
um whenever i need a specific or slim
down singularity image that i can't get
from anywhere else
um okay a darker image
from a path adding is not a good idea
i actually wanted to get this out of the
um yeah i will just skip this
um but here's how to add a docker image
from a url
it's just the same the very same command
and
i've executed this command on a system
that doesn't have singularity installed
but only docker
which is a windows computer windows you
can only install singularity if you do
it in the windows subsystem for linux
and for testing i tried the windows
machine
and what you can see here is that it
registers the docker image from the url
but it looks a little bit more messy
because docker images are actually not a
single file but every
set of instructions every software that
is that is added to the docker image
creates what is called a layer and that
is this character string here
that gets added as one snapshot
by data led but it's still a workable
container image that you can use
it's just that it looks a little bit
frightening uh when you take a look at
some of the
result rendering the data light provides
okay
and then the last thing i wanted to draw
your attention to is
how dataled executes
things inside of containers so if you're
using containers then you know
that it's actually dependent
on how you invoke a container what this
container does
and sometimes you have containerized
pipelines that need specific arguments
or a certain type of bind mount so a
linkage to certain directories that
should be available inside of the
container
so i just wanted to be transparent on
how datalet
does the actual execution of
stuff inside of the container which is
handled
more or less automatically but here's
how you can configure it
so um if you take a look into the
data led config file inside of a dataset
that has
a configured container image then you
will find
not only the url where it's registered
from and where it can be updated from
and the path to the image in the data
set
but you can also find this command
execution line
which is the definition of how this
particular
singularity or docker image will be
executed
and in this case here or the default
case of singularities available on your
system
is a singularity exact uh with the
specification of the image that's a
placeholder that will be expanded with
this thing and then the command that you
give to data let run or that
data let containers run but there are
use cases where you want to configure
that
and one way of doing it is to just open
that file and
and write in whatever configuration you
need
and another thing to do is to just
specify the configuration right at the
time
of um container adding and that you can
do with the
call format flag where you can
basically exchange this string with
whatever other string you want so here's
an example
of how i invoke fmri prep and fmri probe
wants some specific arguments for
example it's
recommended to do a clean and
flag when i invoke fmri prep and i also
want to have
certain bind mounts in this case my
working directory and a license file
that needs to be
handed to fmri prep and this is how i
can configure this
and if you're interested in finding a
little bit more
finding out a little bit more there's a
link to a youtube video
uh where i execute a complete um fmri
prep containerized pipeline workflow
with the data data set and publish it to
jin
for further info and then i wanted to
highlight a couple of useful resources
because
um it's sometimes not
or in most cases not necessary to write
a
container recipe yourself or
build a container image yourself so a
couple of helpful resources to
working with software containers one is
repo to docker which is a really cool
tool
and you can point it to a repository or
a data set
and it builds you a container image from
the configuration files that you place
in that which is fantastic then of
course there's neural docker which i use
that can generate custom docker files
and recip and singularity recipes for
neural imaging
that has me uh fsl all of these tools
um that it can do then there is
a container collection the reprimand
container collection which is a data
data set
and that includes a couple dozen
containers with
common neural imaging software that you
can just install as a sub data set
so you can clone this data set as
a sub data set have all of these
containers included
in your data analysis and use
those containers readily available and
then there's rocker which is docker for
our users thanks for adding that
leonard and that seems to be a really
valuable resource for everything are
related um okay so for a quick summary
um when we think back to all of these
definitions
then i hope that we will be able to make
a point that datalet can assist in all
of those things
for reproducibility datalet can provide
automatically
uh recompute automatic recomputation and
identity checks of results
but with a data data set it is also
quite easy to do replication by just
exchanging the input data and re-running
stuff especially if you use
standard such as bits and and
generic scripts that make use not of
hard-coded paths but for example
globbing for file patterns
you can exchange input data into your
analysis and
replicate them uh very nicely
robustness is eased
because data that makes it easy with a
modular structure to reuse data
and to change the code and then update
the paper for example in this
reproducible paper setup
and generalization is made easy if you
share your
analysis data set in an easily reusable
and adaptable framework such as a
day-to-day data set you can
assist others that try to build up on
your work and try to extend it
okay um now i think i have
um so we have i have spent too much time
on this section
i'm really sorry so there were a couple
of hands-on sections
planned um with
um in in this whoops in this session
and all of them are in
on the um on the uh on the workshop
homepage
one hands-on was this reproducible paper
template
and everything is documented so if you
want to take a look
and and just figure everything out then
you can do this still
and just write as an issue if something
doesn't work and the second hands-on is
running a containerized neural imaging
workflow
which makes use of the container reprint
container data set
and everything that you would need to
run is also highlighted here as
a copy paste snippets that you can put
into your terminal
in order to do so i have also included
a couple of further reading links with
more information
if you're curious about software
containers and i hope that
um we can instead of going through these
hands-on
go to the publication session i'll do a
quick
break with the toilet visit and
then get to the questions that people
are having
to discuss those and